# Case Cache

The WebGPU CTS contains many tests that check that the results of an operation
fall within limits defined by the WebGPU and WGSL specifications. The
computation of these allowed limits can be very expensive to calculate, however
the values do not vary by platform or device, and can be precomputed and reused
for multiple CTS runs.

## File cache

To speed up execution of the CTS, the CTS git repo holds holds pre-computed
test cases, serialized in a set of gzip-compressed binary files under
[`src/resources/cache`](../src/resources/cache).

These files are regenerated by [`src/common/tools/gen_cache.ts`](../src/common/tools/gen_cache.ts)
which can be run with `npx grunt run:generate-cache`.
This tool is automatically run by the various Grunt build commands.

As generating the cache is expensive (hence why we build it ahead of time!) the
cache generation tool will only re-build the cache files it believes may be out
of date. To determine which files it needs to rebuild, the tool calculates a
hash of all the transitive source TypeScript files that are used to build the
output, and compares this hash to the hash stored in
[`src/resources/cache/hashes.json`](`../src/resources/cache/hashes.json`). Only
those cache files with differing hashes are rebuilt.

Since source changes will sometimes change the hash without changing the generated cache,
sometimes the cache will be regenerated unnecessarily. **This is OK, but try to avoid committing
no-op regenerations - this will happen if your version of Node produces different gzip outputs
than the original committer's Node did for the same input.**

The cache files are copied from [`src/resources/cache`](../src/resources/cache)
to the `resources/cache` subdirectory of the
[`out` and `out-node` build directories](build.md#build-types), so the runner
can load these cache files.

The GitHub presubmit checks will error if the cache files or
[`hashes.json`](`../src/resources/cache/hashes.json`) need updating.

## In memory cache

If a cache file cannot be found, then the [`CaseCache`](../src/webgpu/shader/execution/expression/case_cache.ts)
will build the cases during CTS execution and store the results in an in-memory LRU cache.

## Using the cache

To add test cases to the cache:

1. Import `makeCaseCache` from [`'case_cache.js'`](../src/webgpu/shader/execution/expression/case_cache.ts);

```ts
import { makeCaseCache } from '../case_cache.js'; // your relative path may vary
```

2. Declare an exported global variable with the name `d`, assigned with the return value of `makeCaseCache()`:

```ts
export const d = makeCaseCache('unique/path/of/your/cache/file', {
  // Declare any number of fields that build the test cases
  name_of_your_case: () => {
    return fullI32Range().map(e => { // example case builder
      return { input: i32(e), expected: i32(-e) };
    });
  },
});
```

3. To load the cases from the cache, use `d.get();`

```ts
const cases = await d.get('name_of_your_case');
// cases will either be loaded from the cache file, loaded from the in-memory
// LRU, or built on the fly.
```

4. Run `npx grunt run generate-cache` to generate the new cache file.
